README.md, before:




# North-American City Finder (na-city-finder)

Simple Java implementation of a suggestion api for north-american cities that have a population larger than 5000. 
This is for the Coveo Coding Challenge, which is the origin of the fork. The original text is at the bottom of this page.

## Implementation Details

### Hosting and services

The api is hosted by Heroku at https://na-city-finder.herokuapp.com. The api uses an Heroku-managed PostgreSQL to store cities
and execute search statement based on queries.

### Frameworks

All dependancies are managed through Maven.

- **Spark** for API routes
- **Hibernate** for object relationnal mapping to database
- **PostgreSQL** for JDBC connection drivers

### City Informations

All city information is fetched from the database. However, a local version can be ran using an "in-memory" city registry through
the use of a convenient interface. The CityFinder uses whatever CityRegistry is passed during construction.

## Build and deployment

Different Heroku Procfile are included, for different purposes :

Normal build :
- Procfile : for standard deployment to Heroku
- Procfile_local : for deployment on Windows machines (dev pc)

Populate Database build :
- Procfile_populateDb : for deployment on Windows machines

This second build loads an in-memory registry and batch-inserts the cities in the database registry. NOTE : this does not delete 
rows from the database. To clear the database, uncomment
```xml 
<property name="hbm2ddl.auto">create</property> 
```
in hibernate.cfg.xml.
After the database is populated (it should take around a minute), do not forget to remove the property from the config file.




# (Original Text) Coveo Backend Coding Challenge
(inspired by https://github.com/busbud/coding-challenge-backend-c)

## Requirements

Design an API endpoint that provides auto-complete suggestions for large cities.

- The endpoint is exposed at `/suggestions`
- The partial (or complete) search term is passed as a querystring parameter `q`
- The caller's location can optionally be supplied via querystring parameters `latitude` and `longitude` to help improve relative scores
- The endpoint returns a JSON response with an array of scored suggested matches
    - The suggestions are sorted by descending score
    - Each suggestion has a score between 0 and 1 (inclusive) indicating confidence in the suggestion (1 is most confident)
    - Each suggestion has a name which can be used to disambiguate between similarly named locations
    - Each suggestion has a latitude and longitude

## "The rules"

- *You can use the language and technology of your choosing.* It's OK to try something new (tell us if you do), but feel free to use something you're comfortable with. We don't care if you use something we don't; the goal here is not to validate your knowledge of a particular technology.
- End result should be deployed on a public Cloud (Heroku, AWS etc. all have free tiers you can use).

## Advices

- **Try to design and implement your solution as you would do for real production code**. Show us how you create clean, maintainable code that does awesome stuff. Build something that we'd be happy to contribute to. This is not a programming contest where dirty hacks win the game.
- Feel free to add more features! Really, we're curious about what you can think of. We'd expect the same if you worked with us.
- Documentation and maintainability is a plus.
- Don't you forget those unit tests.
- We don’t want to know if you can do exactly as asked (or everybody would have the same result). We want to know what **you** bring to the table when working on a project, what is your secret sauce. More features? Best solution? Thinking outside the box?

## Sample responses

These responses are meant to provide guidance. The exact values can vary based on the data source and scoring algorithm

**Near match**

    GET /suggestions?q=Londo&latitude=43.70011&longitude=-79.4163

```json
{
  "suggestions": [
    {
      "name": "London, ON, Canada",
      "latitude": "42.98339",
      "longitude": "-81.23304",
      "score": 0.9
    },
    {
      "name": "London, OH, USA",
      "latitude": "39.88645",
      "longitude": "-83.44825",
      "score": 0.5
    },
    {
      "name": "London, KY, USA",
      "latitude": "37.12898",
      "longitude": "-84.08326",
      "score": 0.5
    },
    {
      "name": "Londontowne, MD, USA",
      "latitude": "38.93345",
      "longitude": "-76.54941",
      "score": 0.3
    }
  ]
}
```

**No match**

    GET /suggestions?q=SomeRandomCityInTheMiddleOfNowhere

```json
{
  "suggestions": []
}
```

## References

- Geonames provides city lists Canada and the USA http://download.geonames.org/export/dump/readme.txt

## Getting Started

Begin by forking this repo and cloning your fork. GitHub has apps for [Mac](http://mac.github.com/) and
[Windows](http://windows.github.com/) that make this easier.

Commit message:

Adds Scoring algorithm and possible ameliorations

README.md, after:




# North-American City Finder (na-city-finder)

Simple Java implementation of a suggestion api for north-american cities that have a population larger than 5000. 
This is for the Coveo Coding Challenge, which is the origin of the fork. The original text is at the bottom of this page.

## Implementation Details

### Hosting and services

The api is hosted by Heroku at https://na-city-finder.herokuapp.com. The api uses an Heroku-managed PostgreSQL to store cities
and execute search statement based on queries.

### Frameworks

All dependancies are managed through Maven.

- **Spark** for API routes
- **Hibernate** for object relationnal mapping to database
- **PostgreSQL** for JDBC connection drivers

### City Informations

All city information is fetched from the database. However, a local version can be ran using an "in-memory" city registry through
the use of a convenient interface. The CityFinder uses whatever CityRegistry is passed during construction.

### Scoring Algorithm

The scoring algorithm used is a very simple interpolator based on distance to city. The score is not based on the exactitude of the partial string match.
The actual interpolation was tweeked so that it "looked good".

## Build and deployment

Different Heroku Procfile are included, for different purposes :

Normal build :
- Procfile : for standard deployment to Heroku
- Procfile_local : for deployment on Windows machines (dev pc)

Populate Database build :
- Procfile_populateDb : for deployment on Windows machines

This second build loads an in-memory registry and batch-inserts the cities in the database registry. NOTE : this does not delete 
rows from the database. To clear the database, uncomment
```xml 
<property name="hbm2ddl.auto">create</property> 
```
in hibernate.cfg.xml.
After the database is populated (it should take around a minute), do not forget to remove the property from the config file.

## Possible Ameliorations

- Abstract the api routes from Spark. Use an interface/abstract class combination so that it is : 1. Easier to test, and 2. Easier to change the underlying framework (Spark).
- Modify the scoring algorithm so that it also considers the exactness of the string match.

# (Original Text) Coveo Backend Coding Challenge
(inspired by https://github.com/busbud/coding-challenge-backend-c)

## Requirements

Design an API endpoint that provides auto-complete suggestions for large cities.

- The endpoint is exposed at `/suggestions`
- The partial (or complete) search term is passed as a querystring parameter `q`
- The caller's location can optionally be supplied via querystring parameters `latitude` and `longitude` to help improve relative scores
- The endpoint returns a JSON response with an array of scored suggested matches
    - The suggestions are sorted by descending score
    - Each suggestion has a score between 0 and 1 (inclusive) indicating confidence in the suggestion (1 is most confident)
    - Each suggestion has a name which can be used to disambiguate between similarly named locations
    - Each suggestion has a latitude and longitude

## "The rules"

- *You can use the language and technology of your choosing.* It's OK to try something new (tell us if you do), but feel free to use something you're comfortable with. We don't care if you use something we don't; the goal here is not to validate your knowledge of a particular technology.
- End result should be deployed on a public Cloud (Heroku, AWS etc. all have free tiers you can use).

## Advices

- **Try to design and implement your solution as you would do for real production code**. Show us how you create clean, maintainable code that does awesome stuff. Build something that we'd be happy to contribute to. This is not a programming contest where dirty hacks win the game.
- Feel free to add more features! Really, we're curious about what you can think of. We'd expect the same if you worked with us.
- Documentation and maintainability is a plus.
- Don't you forget those unit tests.
- We don’t want to know if you can do exactly as asked (or everybody would have the same result). We want to know what **you** bring to the table when working on a project, what is your secret sauce. More features? Best solution? Thinking outside the box?

## Sample responses

These responses are meant to provide guidance. The exact values can vary based on the data source and scoring algorithm

**Near match**

    GET /suggestions?q=Londo&latitude=43.70011&longitude=-79.4163

```json
{
  "suggestions": [
    {
      "name": "London, ON, Canada",
      "latitude": "42.98339",
      "longitude": "-81.23304",
      "score": 0.9
    },
    {
      "name": "London, OH, USA",
      "latitude": "39.88645",
      "longitude": "-83.44825",
      "score": 0.5
    },
    {
      "name": "London, KY, USA",
      "latitude": "37.12898",
      "longitude": "-84.08326",
      "score": 0.5
    },
    {
      "name": "Londontowne, MD, USA",
      "latitude": "38.93345",
      "longitude": "-76.54941",
      "score": 0.3
    }
  ]
}
```

**No match**

    GET /suggestions?q=SomeRandomCityInTheMiddleOfNowhere

```json
{
  "suggestions": []
}
```

## References

- Geonames provides city lists Canada and the USA http://download.geonames.org/export/dump/readme.txt

## Getting Started

Begin by forking this repo and cloning your fork. GitHub has apps for [Mac](http://mac.github.com/) and
[Windows](http://windows.github.com/) that make this easier.
